Lab 1
Introduction: In this lab we built the controllers using the pre-arranged kit we got. The controller I built more or less follows the sample design of the controller with two joysticks, 8 buttons, and a switch. It is extremely similar to the sample design on the lab.

Design Methodology: From a hardware standpoint, I wanted the design to be easy to use. Thats why I had the lef joystick close to the left edge of the controller. The second joystick in my opinion is less likely to be utlized extensively, so I put it lower down on the controller. On the top right are 4 buttons, similar to how you would see it on a modern Xbox controller. There was an initial plan to mill some square holes in the wood to make the joystick as low as the buttons, but due to issues with machine shot access these plans had to be shelved. The edges are sanded so the controller feels nicer to grip. Seeing as there doesn't seem to be a whole lot of difference between my controller and the sample, I have only shown a few pictures to show that I did built it in time.

Testing Methodology: So far I have tested all the connections with a multimeter and they all check out. Ground is connected to ground, if you press the button then the connection flips, etc. I haven't tried testing it with Arduino just yet.

Results and Discussion: I accomplished everything required, which is always nice. However, it wouldn've been nice to add more features to the controller. One thing I did do is sand the sides and edges so the controller feels much smoother and nicer to grip than the sample. If I was given more time, I would definately do something more with LEDs like the Xbox controller ring in the center. I also would've made the joysticks lower relative to the buttons, since as of now the transition from button to joystick is just awkward. The wiring also could be cleaner, there are many wires that are rather long and in the way sometimes, perhaps will have to solder insead of using the pregiven wires.

Conclusions: I had fun wiring the controller and deciding where to do things, but unfortunately the machine shop was not open and after much lobbying, was only able to get it open for 1 hour, just enough time to drill holes for the joysticks :(.

Source Code: None ye